This checklist is supposed to be used to help people self-correct their own work in Old English. It may be updated from time to time.

SELF-CORRECTION CHECKLIST, VERBOSE:

1. Are my adjectives appropriately declined weak vs strong? (weak declension is used: when the adjective is preceeded by by all forms of "se", "þes", and all non-third person possessive pronouns; in apposition, in the comparative degree, in nearly all ordinals (except "ōðer" is ALWAYS declined strong - otherwise it is declined strong)

2. Are my adjectives, nouns, and prononus using the appropriate case?

3. Am I using the correct cases for verbs and prepositions? (The cases which verbs and prepositions take, is not fully predictable; for example, "hȳran" (to hear) usually takes the accusative case for person being heard; but "hlystan" (to listen) usually takes the genetive case) Note that such cases are variable - sometimes, any of two cases may be used with the same meaning; however, sometimes changing case changes the relationship of the verb object to the verb, and the meaning of the sentence. 

4. Do my adjectives agree in number, gender, and case with their respective nouns/pronouns?

5. Are all words that I am declining actually declinable? (Some words are usually treated as indeclinable, such as "fēawa" - "few")

6. Do any of my quantative words ("fela", "fēawa", etc) take partitive genetive?

7. Do my nouns belong to a niche declension? (u-declenion (sunu), -ru ending (ċildru), i-mutated, etc)

8. Am I using the correct verb declension? (class 1 weak, class 2 weak, class 3 weak, present-preterite, all 7+ strong verb classes, irregular verbs, etc)

9. Am I using the correct person and tense of the verb?

10. Is my word order correct?

11. If you are using Bosworth and Toller, some of the Modern English translations for Old English words their are out-of-date. Are you sure you have the correct Old English word for the sense or meaning you intend?

12. Is my speech idiomatic? (Advanced concern - disregard this if you are a beginner.)

13. If you are using neologisms, are your neologisms inline with Old English neologism formation constraints?

SELF-CORRECTION CHECKLIST, IN SHORT:

1. Correct use of weak vs strong adjective declension
2. Appropriate case for nouns, pronouns, adjectives
3. Proper matching of cases with verbs and prepositions
4. Agreement in case, gender, and number between nouns, pronouns, and adjectives
5. Some words are indeclinable
6. Some quantative words (such as "fela") take partitive genetive
7. Does the noun belong to a niche declension?
8. Correct verb declension paradigm (weak 1, weak 2, strong, etc.)
9. Correct person and tense of verb
10. Correct word order (especially in subordinate clauses)
11. Bosworth and Toller uses old-fashioned Modern English - do you actually have the right Old English word?
12. Is your speech idiomatic? (For advanced speakers.)
13. Do your neologisms for historical neologism formation patterns?

